# treasureHunt - open certificate management framework

Access controls for smart contracts are primitive, inflexible, difficult to work with and expensive. As more economic activity moves towards EVM type structures, gating and permitting must become more sophisticated to allow for better targeting of users and pinpointed incentivisation while maintaining the benefits of a bearer system.

treasureHunt is based around a single ERC721 compliant NFT which is fully implemented onchain, giving it immutable properties that can only be updated through predefined and publicly known actions. The treasureHunt framework allows anyone to become a **challenge manager** by posting a **challenges** to the treasurHunt contract, which can be linked to an individual token by the holder by receiving a **badge** after having received signature permission by the challenge manager. Linked challenge badges can be queried by anyone connected to the Ethereum blockchain, and notably directly to the contract by another smart cotnract in an easy to implement and gas non-intensive manner onchain.

The permissionless basis of treasureHunt gives challenge managers the freedom to any type of challenge based on their own eligibility logic and provide a signature to claimers meeting the criteria. The pull based implementation of badges furthermore gives claimers the ability to selectively link badges from challenges they choose reducing the likelihood of spam certificates and eliminating the need for use case specific certificates such as mint passes.

treasureHunt is implemented as a transferrable token, allowing for the possibility of a secondary market for single or groups of badges, or management of tokens across wallets controlled by a single entity. Challenge managers who have use cases that require for the binding of certificates to a specific address may choose to issue badges in a revokeable format, allowing for badges to be delinked from specific tokens according to terms set by the challenge manager. Challange managers may also selectively decide to issue parallel badges with identical eligibility criteria with on badge being revokeable and the second without revokation powers. This gives greater flexibility to consumers of badges when choosing how to implement access controls.

Using treasureHunt can dramatically reduce the complexity and overhead of airdrops by moving from a MerkleDrop style system which requires the airdrop provider to deploy a complete Merkle Tree to server and user friendly service to query the Merkle Tree proofs at claim time. Instead airdrops can be implemented using the criteria assigned by the developer and issued as a challenge, users wishing to claim their airdrop can receive the challenge certificate by requesting an EIP-712 signature from the developer. At claim time the smart contract managing distribution of tokens need only query that the caller has the eligible badge. Airdrops may also choose to issue airdrops based on existing badge(s) rather than issuing their own specific badge, greatly reducing the need to manage the challenge process.

Outside of managing token claims, treasureHunt can also be used for selective gating within a contract, for instance liqudity mining pools that are only open to holders of specific badges, increased governance power or smart contract access controls only available to holders of specific badges in a transparent manner that persists beyond individual smart contracts.

treasureHunt is open and composable making it a great framework for a myriad of use cases both on and offchain that require access controls.

## Goals of treasureHunt

treasureHunt aims to become an open hub for certificates, widely accepted and used by projects looking to modify their access controls based on onchain data.

Using treasureHunt allows token holders, challenge managers and certificate consumers to reduce the complexity of managing onchain access controls. This is achieved by the implementation of badges (certificates) in a single contract address. By using treasureHunt token holders have fewer tokens and contract interactions to manage. Greater use and acceptance of common criteria can also yield global gas savings by reducing the number of complex MerkleDrop transactions and eliminating the need for one-off mint passes. treasureHunt also leans on the bearer nature of Ethereum itself, and does not seek to create an identity solution. treasureHunt tokens can be transferred freely across wallets and addresses, allowing for greater composibility and control whilst removing the need for immutable identity tying a wallet to an entity.

By managing certificates in a single contract address, certificate consumers and token holders reduce data fragmentation and the need to index countless individual access controls and tokens. In doing so, token holders have a more simplified user experience and become less exposed to potentially fradulent and exploitative tokens dropped to their wallet.